Added Shadowing documentation (#7064)
plone/volto: docs/conceptual-guides/shadowing.md

Reviewer: On second reading, I think this fits better in the how-to guides than the conceptual guides. I don't see much in the way of concepts here. What do you think?

Author: I thought the same, it's a mix of howto and conceptual. 
If it goes to how to, then we need a conceptual guide for the whole concept of "shadowing" even if it's a few workds, pointing to the how-to.

Reviewer: Is shadowing a term or a concept? If the former, a glossary entry may be sufficient, else a short page may be necessary.

We already have this glossary entry, which is maintained in the main documentation, but I'm not sure it applies to Seven. It also feels too long for a glossary entry, so maybe a page is more appropriate.

https://6.docs.plone.org/glossary.html#term-shadowing

What do you think?

Also I agree that cross-referencing between the two, whether a page or glossary entry, is necessary.

---
myst:
  html_meta:
    "description": "How to shadow a component or module in Seven"
    "property=og:description": "How to shadow a component or module in Seven"

>     "property=og:title": "Shadow a component or module"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    "property=og:title": "Shadow a component or module in Seven"
```

    "keywords": "Seven, shadow, override, component, frontend"
---

> # Shadow a component or module in Seven

Reviewer: Note that in `html_meta` above, the context is search engine results. More text is better.

In page titles and other headings, the context is implicit and often obvious, so it is OK to remove that when it is obvious.

```suggestion
# Shadow a component or module
```

> Component or module shadowing allows you to override a component from an existing package in a clean and structured way, without directly modifying third-party code. This technique is particularly useful for customizing the behavior or appearance of specific components in Seven or any add-ons.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Component or module shadowing allows you to override a component from an existing package in a clean and structured way, without directly modifying third-party code.
This technique is particularly useful for customizing the behavior or appearance of specific components in Seven or any add-ons.
```

> This mechanism is powered by Vite's `resolve.alias`, which maps a module path to an alternative file or folder. The override is resolved **at build time**, replacing the original module with your custom implementation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This mechanism is powered by Vite's [`resolve.alias`](https://vite.dev/config/shared-options#resolve-alias), which maps a module path to an alternative file or folder.
Vite resolves the override at build time, replacing the original module with your custom implementation.
```

> ## How it works
> 
> 1. Locate the component you want to override (a.k.a. "shadow").
> 2. Replicate the original folder structure within a `customizations` folder inside your project.
> 3. Vite will resolve the alias to your version during the build.

Reviewer: This has an AI stink to it. No need for a separate section or enumeration.

```suggestion
To shadow a component, perform the following tasks.

-   Locate the component you want to override or shadow.
-   Replicate the component's original folder structure inside a {file}`customizations` folder in your project.

```

## Project structure for shadowing

Suppose the component you want to shadow is located at:

```
node_modules/@plone/slots/components/Logo/Logo.svg

> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To shadow components, you must follow a project structure pattern.

Assume the component you want to shadow is located at `node_modules/@plone/slots/components/Logo/Logo.svg`.

> You will need to replicate this structure under `src/customizations`, like so:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You'll need to replicate this structure under {file}`src/customizations` as shown.
```

```
customizations/
└── @plone/
    └── slots/
        └── components/
            └── Logo/
                └── Logo.svg
```

> > Tip: Use absolute imports in your shadowed modules to avoid resolution issues.

Reviewer: ````suggestion
```{tip}
Use absolute imports in your shadowed modules to avoid resolution issues.
```
````

## Identifying components to shadow

To determine what and where to shadow:

> - Use [React Developer Tools](https://chromewebstore.google.com/detail/react-developer-tools/fmkadmapgofadopljbjfkapdkoienihi) to inspect the live DOM tree and identify component names.

Reviewer: Google can take a back seat to Firefox.

```suggestion
-   Use the React Developer Tools add-on for either [Firefox](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/react-devtools/) or [Chrome](https://chromewebstore.google.com/detail/react-developer-tools/fmkadmapgofadopljbjfkapdkoienihi) to inspect the live DOM tree and identify component names.
```

> - Search those component names in the corresponding source package inside `node_modules/`.
> - Follow import paths and folder structures to map to the original file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   Search those component names in the corresponding source package inside {file}`node_modules/`.
-   Follow import paths and folder structures to map to the original file.
```

## Caution when upgrading

```{warning}
If you update a dependency or add-on that contains shadowed components, always verify whether the shadowed component's structure, API, or dependencies have changed.

Failure to adapt your shadowed code to the new version may break your application silently or cause unexpected behavior.
```

## Clarification: only registered add-ons can be shadowed

> Shadowing only works with **registered add-ons** that are explicitly declared as such and included in the Vite aliasing configuration. In Seven, only add-ons that are properly registered via the `add-ons` mechanism (e.g., through `configureAddons`) will be available for component shadowing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Shadowing only works with **registered add-ons** that are explicitly declared as such and included in the Vite aliasing configuration.
In Seven, only add-ons that are properly registered via the `add-ons` mechanism, specifically the `configureAddons()` API, will be available for component shadowing.
```

If you attempt to shadow a module from a package that is not registered as an add-on, the override will **not be resolved**, and your changes will be silently ignored.

> > Always ensure the package you want to shadow is installed and registered in your application configuration.

Reviewer: I don't know why you want to have this as a block quote. Did you intend an [admonition](https://myst-parser.readthedocs.io/en/latest/syntax/admonitions.html) instead?

```suggestion
Always ensure the package you want to shadow is installed and registered in your application configuration.
```

## Summary

> - Component shadowing is safe and modular when done properly.
> - The key is to mirror the original file path in the `customizations` folder.
> - Only registered add-ons can be shadowed.
> - Keep your shadowed components up to date with upstream changes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-   Component shadowing is safe and modular when done properly.
-   The key is to mirror the original file path in the {file}`customizations` folder.
-   Only registered add-ons can be shadowed.
-   Keep your shadowed components up to date with upstream changes.
```

```
customizations/
└── @plone/
    └── slots/
        └── components/
            └── Logo/
                └── Logo.svg
```

```{tip}
Use absolute imports in your shadowed modules to avoid resolution issues.
```

## Identifying components to shadow

To determine what and where to shadow:

-   Use the React Developer Tools add-on for either [Firefox](https://addons.mozilla.org/en-US/firefox/addon/react-devtools/) or [Chrome](https://chromewebstore.google.com/detail/react-developer-tools/fmkadmapgofadopljbjfkapdkoienihi) to inspect the live DOM tree and identify component names.
-   Search those component names in the corresponding source package inside {file}`node_modules/`.
-   Follow import paths and folder structures to map to the original file.

## Caution when upgrading

```{warning}
If you update a dependency or add-on that contains shadowed components, always verify whether the shadowed component's structure, API, or dependencies have changed.

Failure to adapt your shadowed code to the new version may break your application silently or cause unexpected behavior.
```

## Clarification: only registered add-ons can be shadowed

> Shadowing only works with **registered add-ons** that are explicitly declared as such (using `registry.config.ts`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Shadowing only works with **registered add-ons** that are explicitly declared as such in {file}`registry.config.ts`.
```

> 
> If you attempt to shadow a module from a package that is not registered as an add-on, the override will **not be resolved**, and your changes will be silently ignored.
> 

Reviewer: This whole section is just one paragraph.

```suggestion
If you attempt to shadow a module from a package that is not registered as an add-on, the override will **not be resolved**, and your changes will be silently ignored.
```
